- [Testability](#testability)
  - [Measuring testability](#measuring-testability)

# Testability 

-	The degree to which a system or component facilitates the establishment of test criteria and the performance of tests to determine whether those criteria have been met.

-  >The degree to which a requirement is stated in terms that permit establishment of test criteria and performance of tests to determine whether those criteria have been met. 
[ IEEE Standard Glossary of Software Engineering Terminology (1990)]

-	> Testability is the likelihood of a program to fail with the next test ( given a particular assumed input distribution) if the software includes a bug.  [“Sofware Testabilitty: The New Verification. ” Voas and Miller (1995)]

-	The testability of a given function can be judged with rate of information loss, for instance, you have a function which takes a lot of inputs and returns single value, then it really depends, however there is a high likelihood of that the function has lower testability rate. 

-	In order to increase testability of given system, divide the components as much as possible but not much. 
-	When time-to-market is all that matters, there will be no time to think on testability. 

## Measuring testability 

-	Mutation testing
-	Inject defects into a program
-	When executed, these defects should change the inner state 
-	Then perform random testing (or testing with a specific usage profile) and see if the change of a program yields different output 
-	Measure the likelihood of an injected defect changing the output 
-	**High likelihood = high testability**
-	The idea is related to mutation testing [ DeMillo et al. 1978 ] where the quality of a test suite is determined by checking if an existing test suite would catch an injected defect. 
